CSS3 transition
In general, you apply the transition
property to the original style, the style that defines the look of an element
before the animation begins.

The transition property. CSS3 adds the transition property—the secret
sauce that makes the animation possible. In general, you apply the transition
property to the original style, the style that defines the look of an element
before the animation begins.

When the trigger no longer applies—when the visitor mouses off a navigation
button, for example—then the browser returns the tag back to its previous style
and animates the entire process. In other words, you only need to set a transition
to an element once, and the browser takes care of animating from one style to
another and back to the original style.

A web browser can’t animate every single CSS property, but you still have a long
list of properties to choose from. In addition to the rotate, scale, translate,
and skew transformations you just read about, you can also animate color,
background-color, border-color, border-width, font-size, height, width, letterspacing,
line-height, margin, opacity, padding, word-spacing; the positioning
properties—top, left, right, and bottom—which you’ll learn about in Chapter 15;
and many other properties. You can find a complete list at www.w3.org/TR/css3-
transitions/#animatable-properties.

.navButton {
background-color: orange;
-webkit-transition-property: background-color;
-moz-transition-property: background-color;
-o-transition-property: background-color;
transition-property: background-color;
-webkit-transition-duration: 1s;
-moz-transition-duration: 1s;
-o-transition-duration: 1s;
transition-duration: 1s;
}

The transition-timing-function property can take one of five keywords: linear,
ease, ease-in, ease-out, and ease-in-out. If you don’t specify a timing function,
the browser uses the ease method, which begins the animation slowly, speeds up
in the middle, and slows down at the end, providing a more organic change.

Visit www.the-art-of-web.com/css/timing-function/

Transition Shorthand
Writing out all the different properties—transition-property, transition-duration,
transition-timing-function, and transition-duration—can get pretty tiring.
Especially when you consider you need to also create vendor-prefixed versions of
each of those as well. Fortunately, there’s a faster way to create transitions—the
transition property.
This property bundles all of the other properties into one. To use it, simply list the
property, duration, timing function, and duration in a space-separated list. For
example, to animate all CSS properties for one second using the ease-in timing
function, with a half-second delay, write the following:
transition: all 1s ease-in .5s;
You need to list either all or a single CSS property and a duration, but the timing
function and delay are optional. By default, the timing function is ease-in and there’s
no delay. So if you simply want to animate the transition of all CSS properties for
one second, then write this:
transition: all 1s;
If you only want to animate the change in the background color, then list that
property:
transition: background-color 1s;
You can only list a single CSS property here, so if you wish to animate multiple
CSS properties (but not all), then you can write a comma-separated list of spaceseparated
transition properties. Take the example from page 347, where the bordercolor
property is animated separately from the color and background color. You
can rewrite that code like this:
transition: color 1s, background-color 1s, border-color .5s 1s;
To make the code easier to read, many web designers put each transition on a
separate line, like this:
transition: color 1s,
background-color 1s,
border-color .5s 1s;
This is perfectly legal as long as you remember to separate them with a comma
and end the whole shebang with a semicolon. And, of course, you need to create
vendor-prefixed versions as well:
-webkit-transition: color 1s,
background-color 1s,
border-color .5s 1s;
-moz-transition: color 1s,
background-color 1s,
border-color .5s 1s;
-o-transition: color 1s,
background-color 1s,
border-color .5s 1s;
transition: color 1s,
background-color 1s,
border-color .5s 1s;